.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

# Description

Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed. Please also include relevant motivation and context.

Fixes # (issue)  <!-- or Related to # (issue) -->

# Checklist:

- [ ] The title of this PR and the commit history is conform with
	the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my own code.
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings, SonarCloud reports no Vulnerabilities, Bugs or Code Smells.
- [ ] I have added tests (unit and E2E if user-facing) that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works,
	Coverage > 80% and not less than the current coverage of the main branch.
- [ ] The PR branch is up-to-date with the base branch

<!-- Uncomment the following lines if you introduced a new API library -->
<!--
- [ ] I have included the `reset.d.ts` in the `tsconfig.lib.json` 
-->
<!-- Uncomment the following lines if you introduced a new SPA library -->
<!--
- [ ] I have included the `reset.d.ts` in the `tsconfig.lib.json`
- [ ] I have extended the `.eslintrc.json` with `.eslintrc.angular.json`
-->

Commit message:

docs: add NX migrations info to PR template

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

# Description

Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed. Please also include relevant motivation and context.

Fixes # (issue)  <!-- or Related to # (issue) -->

# Checklist:

- [ ] The title of this PR and the commit history is conform with
	the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my own code.
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings, SonarCloud reports no Vulnerabilities, Bugs or Code Smells.
- [ ] I have added tests (unit and E2E if user-facing) that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works,
	Coverage > 80% and not less than the current coverage of the main branch.
- [ ] The PR branch is up-to-date with the base branch. In case you merged `main` into your feature branch, make sure you have run the latest NX migrations (`nx migrate --run-migrations`).

<!-- Uncomment the following lines if you introduced a new API library -->
<!--
- [ ] I have included the `reset.d.ts` in the `tsconfig.lib.json` 
-->
<!-- Uncomment the following lines if you introduced a new SPA library -->
<!--
- [ ] I have included the `reset.d.ts` in the `tsconfig.lib.json`
- [ ] I have extended the `.eslintrc.json` with `.eslintrc.angular.json`
-->
