README.md, before:

<br />
<div align="center">

<h1 align="center">Kordis</h1>

Koordinierungssoftware für Einsatzleitstellen/ Software for rescue operations
control centres

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fkordis-leitstelle%2Fkordis.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fkordis-leitstelle%2Fkordis?ref=badge_shield)

</div>

## About The Project

Kordis is a software for the coordination of rescue stations and units, for
logging operations and radio traffic, and for information processing in the
domain of emergency services. The software aims to provide a modern and simple
UI and workflow for volunteer staff and for professional users while having a
powerful set of features comparable with commercial solutions.

## For Users

If you want to use Kordis, <a href="mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de">please
reach out to us</a>. You can also self-host Kordis, please keep the
<a href="#license">license</a> in mind. To self-host you manually have to set up
the [Kordis Landscape](docs/landscape.md) or adapt the codebase to your needs.

If you found a bug or have a feature request, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/kordis-leitstelle/kordis/issues/new/choose).
Security Issues can be reported via Email to
[info@kordis-leitstelle.de](mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de).

## For Developers/Contributors

We greatly appreciate contributions of any kind.

**Please understand, that the language for this project is English. The program
itself is in German language.** This is due to the fact that we are using this
repository also to apply for OSS sponsorships and as a reference for job
applications. The programm itself is mainly used by German Organizations.

For further information on how to contribute, please read the
[contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Architecture

We have [Architecture Decision Records](https://adr.github.io/) for every major
project decision we make. You can track these decisions under
[`docs/architecture-decisions`](docs/architecture-decisions). General
Architecture information can be found in the given subproject READMEs or and the
[`docs`](docs) folder.

## License

Distributed under the AGPL-3.0 License. See [`LICENSE.md`](./LICENSE.md) for
more information.

## Contact

General Contact -
[info@kordis-leitstelle.de](mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de)  
Jasper Herzberg (Owner, Maintainer) -
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasperherzberg/),
[jhrzbrg@outlook.com](mailto:jhrzbrg@outlook.com)  
Timon Masberg (Owner, Maintainer) -
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/timon-masberg/),
[contact@timonmasberg.com](mailto:contact@timonmasberg.com)

## Acknowledgments

We receive support from the following awesome companies:

- [Cartesius](https://cartesius.io/) for geospatial tools such as location
  intelligence, address autocompletion and validation and geocoding
  (Sponsorship)
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/) for cloud hosting and
  developer support (Sponsorship)
- [Sentry](https://sentry.com/) for performance and error tracking (Sponsorship)

Commit message:

chore(docs): add development start date to Readme

README.md, after:

<br />
<div align="center">

<h1 align="center">Kordis</h1>

Koordinierungssoftware für Einsatzleitstellen/ Software for rescue operations
control centres

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kordis-leitstelle&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kordis-leitstelle)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fkordis-leitstelle%2Fkordis.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fkordis-leitstelle%2Fkordis?ref=badge_shield)

</div>

## About The Project

Kordis is a software for the coordination of rescue stations and units, for
logging operations and radio traffic, and for information processing in the
domain of emergency services. The software aims to provide a modern and simple
UI and workflow, as well as a safe and complient solution for volunteer staff 
and for professional users while having a powerful set of features comparable 
with commercial solutions.

## For Users

This is currently under development. We aim to start feature development in 
September 2024. If you want to use or/and test Kordis, 
<a href="mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de">please reach out to us</a>.
If you found a bug or have a feature request, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/kordis-leitstelle/kordis/issues/new/choose).
Security Issues can be reported via Email to
[info@kordis-leitstelle.de](mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de).

## For Developers/Contributors

We greatly appreciate contributions of any kind.

**Please understand, that the language for this project is English. The program
itself is in German language.** This is due to the fact that we are using this
repository also to apply for OSS sponsorships and as a reference for job
applications. The programm itself is mainly used by German Organizations.

For further information on how to contribute, please read the
[contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Architecture

We have [Architecture Decision Records](https://adr.github.io/) for every major
project decision we make. You can track these decisions under
[`docs/architecture-decisions`](docs/architecture-decisions). General
Architecture information can be found in the given subproject READMEs or and the
[`docs`](docs) folder.

## License

Distributed under the AGPL-3.0 License. See [`LICENSE.md`](./LICENSE.md) for
more information.

## Contact

General Contact -
[info@kordis-leitstelle.de](mailto:info@kordis-leitstelle.de)  
Jasper Herzberg (Owner, Maintainer) -
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasperherzberg/),
[jhrzbrg@outlook.com](mailto:jhrzbrg@outlook.com)  
Timon Masberg (Owner, Maintainer) -
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/timon-masberg/),
[contact@timonmasberg.com](mailto:contact@timonmasberg.com)
