tools/db/README.md, before:

# DB Tools

With the DB tools you are able to get a MongoDB instance up and running to
develop and test Kordis. You should have an active Docker instance up and
running on your maschine.

## Test Data

The data for the test database is within the `data` folder. If you want to
create a new collection, use the `template.ts` as a starter for your file. The
naming of the file should be `<collection name>.data.ts`.

## USAGE:

Every script checks whether you have a MongoDB container up and running. If not
it will pull and start the mongo image at port `27017`.

**Starting a local dev database for development or for testing/e2es:**  
`./kordis-db.sh init <database name>`  
This will bootstrap the a database with the given name and the test data. Make
sure that the database does not exist, otherwise it will just push the data into
the existing database! A MongoDB connection uri will be emitted by the script.
You can use it for local development.

**Starting a local database with a clone of the remote databases:**  
You will need a MongoDB connection URI from the remote database! Make sure to
include the database in the URI!
`./kordis-db.sh from-remote "<remote MongoDB connection uri>" <database name>`  
This will clone the remote database into a local database. A MongoDB connection
uri will be emitted by the script. You can use it for local development.

Commit message:

chore: add mongodb migration scripts

tools/db/README.md, after:

## DB Tools

With the DB tools you are able to get a MongoDB instance up and running to
develop and test Kordis. You should have an active Docker instance up and
running on your maschine.

### Test Data

The data for the test database is within the `data` folder. If you want to
create a new collection, use the `template.ts` as a starter for your file. The
naming of the file should be `<collection name>.data.ts`.  
Please adjust the test data in your branch if you introduce migrations!

### Start

Every script checks whether you have a MongoDB container up and running. If not
it will pull and start the mongo image at port `27017`.

**Starting a local dev database for development or for testing/e2es:**  
`./kordis-db.sh init <database name>`  
This will bootstrap the a database with the given name and the test data. Make
sure that the database does not exist, otherwise it will just push the data into
the existing database! A MongoDB connection uri will be emitted by the script.
You can use it for local development.

**Starting a local database with a clone of the remote databases:**  
You will need a MongoDB connection URI from the remote database! Make sure to
include the database in the URI!
`./kordis-db.sh from-remote "<remote MongoDB connection uri>" <database name>`  
This will clone the remote database into a local database. A MongoDB connection
uri will be emitted by the script. You can use it for local development.

### Migrations

If necessary, you can introduce migration scripts that will directly modify the
database. We use the Node Package
[Mongo Migrate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongo-migrate-ts). You can create
new migrations scripts by running
`./kordis-db.sh new-migration <optional name of migration>`, keep in mind to
only introduce a single migration script per change request into `main`.
